>> Jem Young: So let's go to editing and
saving a file in VIM.
So we're going to move
into last-line mode.
So, in VIM, so
whatever you have in your file,
it doesn't matter if you type
some gibberish or anything,
press esc, :, so its going to do, its
going to be shift-colon on most keyboards.
Type q, what happens?
>> Jem Young: Hello.
>> Speaker 2: You get an error.
>> Jem Young: Exactly.
Got an error.
It's cuz VIM says,
you can't just quit without saving.
Its trying to save you from yourself so
you don't actually quit.
Its really nice, but if we wanna say no,
I know what I'm doing.
I'm way smarter than you VIM,
we can say in last-line mode :q!.
The!, means yes I'm serious, essentially.
[LAUGH] :q!, plugs you right out of there.
So we go back into VI.
>> Jem Young: But
let's say we wanna save this file.
So w is save.
We didn't give it a file name.
So w, I don't know, testfoo.
Save it as testfoo.
So I'll do that again.
So w, some file name testfoo,
that will write and
save your file, but you're not gonna quit.
So, generally, this is like
the muscle-memory I've built in.
It's always wq.
So, that's write and then quit.
Shortcuts to having to type your
filename in every time is just vi
somefilename and
that's gonna open VI already saved.
So now in inserts, hello, escape,
I can just write quit and
I don't have to do that weird file name
savings, cuz it already has a file name.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Couple questions.
Why is VIM faster than other editors?
Is it just because we don't
have to use the mouse trackpad?
>> Jem Young: Yes, absolutely.
High-level context, which is expensive for
engineers, you know,
when you're working on a project, and
your boss comes over and she says,
hey you got that thing I sent you, and
you like, what I'm doing something.
Content switching's expensive and
the same goes for your hands as well.
So if you never have to leave
your keyboard you're just so
much faster versus this, and
that's why VIM is faster.
Again, there's probably a well actually
person, well actually Emacs is faster, and
that's cool too.
Whatever your best at use that, but VIM,
if you're a master, you are just flying
across the keyboard, because again,
you don't use the mouse at any time.
You're just mastering everything.
>> Speaker 2: The other question was, can
you map these commands to other inputs,
like to handle all the new MacBook Pro
won't have the escape key?
>> Jem Young: Absolutely.
VIM is infinitely configurable,
the first step when you install VIM is
probably installing a bunch of plugins,
same you'd do with Adam or Sublime,
or VS Code, or IntelligeN whatever.
Plugins make the world go round, and VIM
has a bunch of plugins, and it's totally,
totally configurable, and that's also
what makes it very, very powerful.
So we can add syntax editing, or
syntax highlighting, file editing,
all sorts of other things.
Oops, too far.
Question.
James has a link in the chat room for
mapping escape key on the,
if you have a brand new Macbook.
Which if you have your brand new Macbook,
that's awesome, I wanna see it.
Anybody have one?
No, I wanna see that control bar,
that's cool.
>> Jem Young: But yeah, again,
we're seeing escape key is so powerful.
That's why I don't understand
why they took it out,
because you really need it in VIM.
So at this point, does everybody here
understand how to write in VIM and
save a file?
Because we will be doing this later and
if you don't know I'm gonna laugh at you.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Jem Young: No, I won't, but
we will absolutely need to be able
to edit files on a server and
there is no GUI to control, paste into,
and let's say you really love this,
let's say, Jem, you inspired me
to become a server administrator.
So you're in this big, cold building
with a whole row of servers, and
you just have a terminal to
access all these servers.
You have to use VIM, cuz you can't copy,
paste, you can't do anything like that.
It's only a command line.
So, again, we're seeing the command
line is the ultimate toolbox
in every engineer's toolkit.